# Practice Quiz: Understanding Slowness
> 
> Total points 5
> 
>  1.Question 1
> 
> Which of the following will an application spend the longest time retrieving data from?
> 
> 1 / 1 point 
> 
>  CPU L2 cache 
> 
>  RAM 
> 
>  Disk 
> 

      The network 
> 
> Check
> 
> Correct
> 
> Right on! An application will take the longest time trying to retrieve data from the network.
> 
>  2.Question 2
> 
> Which tool can you use to verify reports of 'slowness' for web pages served by a web server you manage?
> 
> 1 / 1 point 
> 
>  The top tool 
> 

      The ab tool 
> 
>  The nice tool 
> 
>  The pidof tool 
> 
> Check
> 
> Correct
> 
> Great work! The ab tool is an Apache Benchmark tool used to figure out how slow a web server is based on average timing of requests.
> 
>  3.Question 3
> 
> If our computer running Microsoft Windows is running slow, what performance monitoring tools can we use to analyze our system resource usage to identify the bottleneck? (Check all that apply)
> 
> 1 / 1 point 
> 

      Performance Monitor 
> 
> Check
> 
> Correct
> 
> Excellent! Performance Monitor is a system monitoring program that provides basic CPU and memory resource measurements in Windows.
> 

      Resource Monitor 
> 
> Check
> 
> Correct
> 
> Nice job! Resource Monitor is an advanced resource monitoring utility that provides data on hardware and software resources in real time.
> 
>  Activity Monitor 
> 
>  top 
> 
>  4.Question 4
> 
> Which of the following programs is likely to run faster and more efficiently, with the least slowdown?
> 
> 1 / 1 point 
> 
>  A program with a cache stored on a hard drive 
> 

      A program small enough to fit in RAM 
> 
>  A program that reads files from an optical disc 
> 
>  A program that retrieves most of its data from the Internet 
> 
> Check
> 
> Correct
> 
> Nice work! Since RAM access is faster than accessing a disk or network, a program that can fit in RAM will run faster.
> 
>  5.Question 5
> 
> What might cause a single application to slow down an entire system? (Check all that apply)
> 
> 1 / 1 point 
> 

      A memory leak 
> 
> Check
> 
> Correct
> 
> Woohoo! Memory leaks happen when an application doesn't release memory when it is supposed to.
> 
>  The application relies on a slow network connection 
> 

      Handling files that have grown too large 
> 
> Check
> 
> Correct
> 
> Awesome! If files generated by the application have grown overly large, slowdown will occur if the application needs to store a copy of the file in RAM in order to use it.
> 
>  Hardware faults
>
> -- https://www.coursera.org/learn/troubleshooting-debugging-techniques/quiz/izcJz/practice-quiz-understanding-slowness/view-attempt#Tunnel Vision Close
