> ## Restricted Boltzmann Machines
> 
> Latest Submission Grade
> 
> 100%
> 
> 1.
> 
> Question 1
> 
> What is the main application of RBM?
> 
> 1 / 1 point
> 
>  Collaborative filtering 
> 
>  Feature extraction 
> 
>  Data dimensionality reduction 
> 

    All of the above 
> 
> Check
> 
> Correct
> 
> 2.
> 
> Question 2
> 
> How many layers does an RBM (Restricted Boltzmann Machine) have?
> 
> 1 / 1 point
> 
>  3 
> 
>  4 
> 

    2 
> 
>  Infinte 
> 
>  All of the above 
> 
> Check
> 
> Correct
> 
> 3.
> 
> Question 3
> 
> How does an RBM compare to a PCA?
> 
> 1 / 1 point
> 
>  Both can regenerate input data 
> 
>  PCA cannot generate original data 
> 
>  PCA is another type of Neural Network 
> 
>  RBM cannot reduce dimensionality 
> 

    All of the above 
> 
> Check
> 
> Correct
> 
> 4.
> 
> Question 4
> 
> Which statement is TRUE about RBM?
> 
> 1 / 1 point
> 
>  At the hidden layer's nodes, X is multiplied by a W (weight matrix) and added to h_bias. 
> 
>  Each node in the first layer has a bias. 
> 
>  The RBM reconstructs data by making several forward and backward passes between the visible and hidden layers. 
> 
>  It is a Boltzmann machine, but with no connections between nodes in the same layer. 
> 

    All of the above 
> 
> Check
> 
> Correct
> 
> 5.
> 
> Question 5
> 
> Which statement is TRUE statement about an RBM?
> 
> 1 / 1 point
> 
>  The Positive phase of an RBM increases the probability of training data. 
> 
>  The Negative phase of an RBM decreases the probability of samples generated by the model. 
> 
>  Contrastive Divergence (CD) is used to approximate the negative phase of an RBM. 
> 
>  The objective function is to maximize the likelihood of our data being drawn from the reconstructed data distribution. 
> 

    All of the above 
> 
> Check
> 
> Correct
>
> -- https://www.coursera.org/learn/building-deep-learning-models-with-tensorflow/exam/CqDQU/restricted-boltzmann-machines/attempt?redirectToCover=true#Tunnel Vision Close
